README.md, before:

# PortMaster - Miscellaneous

This repo is for miscellaneous ports that don't require a full port for each release. Eventually I may combine the repos to keep all my stuff together.


# General structure.

- Port Name
  - build/
    - Files that get built for this port live here, but won't be commited to the repo
  - portname/
    - files & scripts that are needed for the port to work
  - Port Name.sh
    - the file that is run to start the game.
  - build_zip.json
    - the file used to build a release zip.


# Current Ports


| Port | Description / Info | Download | Status |
|------|--------------------|----------|:------:|
| [ArxLiberatis](https://github.com/kloptops/Portmaster-misc/tree/main/ArxLiberatis) | Using [ArxLiberatis](https://github.com/arx/ArxLibertatis) which is based on the publicly released Arx Fatalis source code. | [ArxLiberatis Download](https://github.com/kloptops/Portmaster-misc/raw/main/releases/ArxLiberatis.zip) | :red_circle: |
| [Augustus](https://github.com/kloptops/Portmaster-misc/tree/main/Augustus) | Using [Augustus](https://github.com/Keriew/augustus) | [Augustus Download](https://github.com/kloptops/Portmaster-misc/raw/main/releases/Augustus.zip) | :green_circle: |
| [Fallout 1](https://github.com/kloptops/Portmaster-misc/tree/main/Fallout%201) | Using [fallout1-ce](https://github.com/alexbatalov/fallout1-ce) | [Fallout 1 Download](https://github.com/kloptops/Portmaster-misc/raw/main/releases/Fallout1.zip) | :green_circle: |
| [FreeSerf](https://github.com/kloptops/Portmaster-misc/tree/main/FreeSerf) | Using [FreeSerf](https://github.com/freeserf/freeserf) which is a faithful clone of the brilliant simulation game The Settlers 1 aka Serf City.  | [FreeSerf Download](https://github.com/kloptops/Portmaster-misc/raw/main/releases/FreeSerf.zip) | :green_circle: |
| [GemRB](https://github.com/kloptops/Portmaster-misc/tree/main/GemRB) | Using [GemRB](https://github.com/gemrb/gemrb) the open-source reimplementation of the Infinity Engine that underpinned Baldur's Gate, Icewind Dale and Planescape: Torment. | [GemRB Download](https://github.com/kloptops/Portmaster-misc/raw/main/releases/GemRB.zip) | :green_circle: |
| [Half-Life](https://github.com/kloptops/Portmaster-misc/tree/main/Half-Life) | Using [Xash3D-FWGS](https://github.com/FWGS/xash3d-fwgs), a game engine, aimed to provide compatibility with Half-Life Engine, and [hlsdk-portable](https://github.com/FWGS/hlsdk-portable) for the client binaries. | [Half-Life Download](https://github.com/kloptops/Portmaster-misc/raw/main/releases/Half-Life.zip) | :green_circle: |
| [OpenRCT2](https://github.com/kloptops/Portmaster-misc/tree/main/OpenRCT2) | Using [OpenRCT2](https://github.com/kloptops/OpenRCT2) an open-source re-implementation of RollerCoaster Tycoon 2, a construction and management simulation video game that simulates amusement park management. | [OpenRCT2 Download](https://github.com/kloptops/Portmaster-misc/raw/main/releases/OpenRCT2.zip) | :green_circle: |
| [Rlvm](https://github.com/kloptops/Portmaster-misc/tree/main/Rlvm) | Using [Rlvm](https://github.com/kloptops/rlvm) a Free Software reimplementation of the VisualArt's KK's RealLive interpreter. | [Rlvm Download](https://github.com/kloptops/Portmaster-misc/raw/main/releases/Rlvm.zip) | :green_circle: |
| [Rttr](https://github.com/kloptops/Portmaster-misc/tree/main/Rttr) | [Rttr](https://github.com/Return-To-The-Roots/s25client) is a Settlers II clone.  | [Rttr Download](https://github.com/kloptops/Portmaster-misc/raw/main/releases/Rttr.zip) | :red_circle: |

Legend:
- :green_circle: - Working, available on Portmaster
- :orange_circle: - Runs, but not complete, not available on Portmaster yet
- :red_circle: - Work in progress

Commit message:

Added VanillaRA (Red Alert) and VanillaTD (Tiberium Dawn)

README.md, after:

# PortMaster - Miscellaneous

This repo is for miscellaneous ports that don't require a full port for each release. Eventually I may combine the repos to keep all my stuff together.


# General structure.

- Port Name
  - build/
    - Files that get built for this port live here, but won't be commited to the repo
  - portname/
    - files & scripts that are needed for the port to work
  - Port Name.sh
    - the file that is run to start the game.
  - build_zip.json
    - the file used to build a release zip.


# Current Ports


| Port | Description / Info | Download | Status |
|------|--------------------|----------|:------:|
| [ArxLiberatis](https://github.com/kloptops/Portmaster-misc/tree/main/ArxLiberatis) | Using [ArxLiberatis](https://github.com/arx/ArxLibertatis) which is based on the publicly released Arx Fatalis source code. | [ArxLiberatis Download](https://github.com/kloptops/Portmaster-misc/raw/main/releases/ArxLiberatis.zip) | :red_circle: |
| [Augustus](https://github.com/kloptops/Portmaster-misc/tree/main/Augustus) | Using [Augustus](https://github.com/Keriew/augustus) | [Augustus Download](https://github.com/kloptops/Portmaster-misc/raw/main/releases/Augustus.zip) | :green_circle: |
| [Fallout 1](https://github.com/kloptops/Portmaster-misc/tree/main/Fallout%201) | Using [fallout1-ce](https://github.com/alexbatalov/fallout1-ce) | [Fallout 1 Download](https://github.com/kloptops/Portmaster-misc/raw/main/releases/Fallout1.zip) | :green_circle: |
| [FreeSerf](https://github.com/kloptops/Portmaster-misc/tree/main/FreeSerf) | Using [FreeSerf](https://github.com/freeserf/freeserf) which is a faithful clone of the brilliant simulation game The Settlers 1 aka Serf City.  | [FreeSerf Download](https://github.com/kloptops/Portmaster-misc/raw/main/releases/FreeSerf.zip) | :green_circle: |
| [GemRB](https://github.com/kloptops/Portmaster-misc/tree/main/GemRB) | Using [GemRB](https://github.com/gemrb/gemrb) the open-source reimplementation of the Infinity Engine that underpinned Baldur's Gate, Icewind Dale and Planescape: Torment. | [GemRB Download](https://github.com/kloptops/Portmaster-misc/raw/main/releases/GemRB.zip) | :green_circle: |
| [Half-Life](https://github.com/kloptops/Portmaster-misc/tree/main/Half-Life) | Using [Xash3D-FWGS](https://github.com/FWGS/xash3d-fwgs), a game engine, aimed to provide compatibility with Half-Life Engine, and [hlsdk-portable](https://github.com/FWGS/hlsdk-portable) for the client binaries. | [Half-Life Download](https://github.com/kloptops/Portmaster-misc/raw/main/releases/Half-Life.zip) | :green_circle: |
| [OpenRCT2](https://github.com/kloptops/Portmaster-misc/tree/main/OpenRCT2) | Using [OpenRCT2](https://github.com/kloptops/OpenRCT2) an open-source re-implementation of RollerCoaster Tycoon 2, a construction and management simulation video game that simulates amusement park management. | [OpenRCT2 Download](https://github.com/kloptops/Portmaster-misc/raw/main/releases/OpenRCT2.zip) | :green_circle: |
| [Rlvm](https://github.com/kloptops/Portmaster-misc/tree/main/Rlvm) | Using [Rlvm](https://github.com/kloptops/rlvm) a Free Software reimplementation of the VisualArt's KK's RealLive interpreter. | [Rlvm Download](https://github.com/kloptops/Portmaster-misc/raw/main/releases/Rlvm.zip) | :green_circle: |
| [Rttr](https://github.com/kloptops/Portmaster-misc/tree/main/Rttr) | [Rttr](https://github.com/Return-To-The-Roots/s25client) is a Settlers II clone.  | [Rttr Download](https://github.com/kloptops/Portmaster-misc/raw/main/releases/Rttr.zip) | :red_circle: |
| [VanillaRA](https://github.com/kloptops/Portmaster-misc/tree/main/VanillaRA) | Built using [VanillaConquer](https://github.com/TheAssemblyArmada/Vanilla-Conquer) is a fully portable version of the first generation C&C engine and is capable of running both Tiberian Dawn and Red Alert on multiple platforms. | [VanillaRA Download](https://github.com/kloptops/Portmaster-misc/raw/main/releases/VanillaRA.zip) | :orange_circle: |
| [VanillaTD](https://github.com/kloptops/Portmaster-misc/tree/main/VanillaTD) | Built using [VanillaConquer](https://github.com/TheAssemblyArmada/Vanilla-Conquer) is a fully portable version of the first generation C&C engine and is capable of running both Tiberian Dawn and Red Alert on multiple platforms. | [VanillaTD Download](https://github.com/kloptops/Portmaster-misc/raw/main/releases/VanillaTD.zip) | :red_circle: |

Legend:
- :green_circle: - Working, available on Portmaster
- :orange_circle: - Runs, but not complete, not available on Portmaster yet
- :red_circle: - Work in progress
