VanillaRA/README.md, before:

# VanillaRA

Vanilla Conquer is a fully portable version of the first generation C&C engine and is capable of running both Tiberian Dawn and Red Alert on multiple platforms. It can also be used for mod development for the Remastered Collection.

The main focus of Vanilla Conquer is to keep the default out-of-box experience faithful to what the games were back when they were released and work as a drop-in replacement for the original executables while also providing bug fixes, compatiblity and quality of life improvements.

# Controls

| Button            | Command                     |
|-------------------|-----------------------------|
| **A**             | Mouse Left                  |
| **B**             | Mouse Right                 |
| **X**             | Stop                        |
| **Y**             | Guard                       |
| **L1**            | Force attack                |
| **L2**            | Add to selection            |
| **R1**            | Slow down mouse             |
| **R2**            | Scatter                     |
| **Select + L1**   | Select next unit            |
| **Select + L2**   | Select everything on screen |
| **Select + R1**   | Show/Hide sidebar           |
| **Select + R2**   | Center screen on selection  |
| **Start**         | Enter                       |
| **Select**        | Menu                        |
| **D-Pad Up**      | Group 1                     |
| **D-Pad Right**   | Group 2                     |
| **D-Pad Down**    | Group 3                     |
| **D-Pad Left**    | Group 4                     |
| **Left Analog**   | Mouse Movement              |
| **Right Analog**  | Move screen                 |


# Game folder structure

The game comes with the demo files, to install the full version you will need to place the game files from the [following guide](https://github.com/TheAssemblyArmada/Vanilla-Conquer/wiki/Installing-VanillaRA) into `ports/vanillara/data/vanillara`.

You can get the game files from [here](https://github.com/TheAssemblyArmada/Vanilla-Conquer#vanillatd-and-vanillara).

If you want to use the expansions you will need the files from the patch 3.03, [available here](https://www.moddb.com/games/cc-red-alert/downloads/red-alert-303-beta-english-patch).

For multiple cd's and expansions you need the data folder laid out like this:

```
ports/vanillara/data/vanillara
  ├─ REDALERT.MIX             # From CD1 or CD2
  ├─ soviet/                  # From CD1
  │  ├─ MAIN.MIX
  ├─ allied/                  # From CD2
  │  ├─ MAIN.MIX
  ├─ counterstrike/           # From CD3 -- 1st Expansion
  │  ├─ MAIN.MIX
  ├─ aftermath/               # From CD4 -- 2nd Expansion
  │  ├─ MAIN.MIX
  ├─ EXPAND.MIX               # From Patch 3.03
  ├─ EXPAND2.MIX
  ├─ HIRES1.MIX
  ├─ LORES1.MIX
```

## Building

    git clone https://github.com/TheAssemblyArmada/Vanilla-Conquer.git

    git apply DATA_PATHS.diff

    mkdir build

    cd build

    cmake .. -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug

    make -j4

    strip vanilla*

You will then have `vanillara` & `vanillatd`

# TODO:

- [x] Get game to work.
- [x] Get expansions to work.
- [x] Figure out controls - Thanks Snoopy! :)
- [x] Test it on AmberELEC
- [x] Test it on ArkOS

# Thanks

A special thanks to the excellent folks on the [AmberELEC discord](https://discord.com/invite/R9Er7hkRMe), especially Snoopy and Cebion for all the testing.

Commit message:

VanillaRA/VanillaTD added info in README to enable fullscreen stretching. Thanks @Roughtrade

VanillaRA/README.md, after:

# VanillaRA

Vanilla Conquer is a fully portable version of the first generation C&C engine and is capable of running both Tiberian Dawn and Red Alert on multiple platforms. It can also be used for mod development for the Remastered Collection.

The main focus of Vanilla Conquer is to keep the default out-of-box experience faithful to what the games were back when they were released and work as a drop-in replacement for the original executables while also providing bug fixes, compatiblity and quality of life improvements.

# Controls

| Button            | Command                     |
|-------------------|-----------------------------|
| **A**             | Mouse Left                  |
| **B**             | Mouse Right                 |
| **X**             | Stop                        |
| **Y**             | Guard                       |
| **L1**            | Force attack                |
| **L2**            | Add to selection            |
| **R1**            | Slow down mouse             |
| **R2**            | Scatter                     |
| **Select + L1**   | Select next unit            |
| **Select + L2**   | Select everything on screen |
| **Select + R1**   | Show/Hide sidebar           |
| **Select + R2**   | Center screen on selection  |
| **Start**         | Enter                       |
| **Select**        | Menu                        |
| **D-Pad Up**      | Group 1                     |
| **D-Pad Right**   | Group 2                     |
| **D-Pad Down**    | Group 3                     |
| **D-Pad Left**    | Group 4                     |
| **Left Analog**   | Mouse Movement              |
| **Right Analog**  | Move screen                 |

# Game Settings

For 640x480 full screen (slightly stretched) change `ports/vanillara/save/vanillara/redalert.ini`:

```
[Video]
Windowed=no
DOSMode=no
BoxingAspectRatio=4:3
Width=640
Height=480
Scaler=linear
```

To enable the original DOS graphics change `DOSMode=no` to `DOSMode=yes`.

__Thanks to [Snoopy](https://github.com/Roughtrade) for figuring out these options__

# Game folder structure

The game comes with the demo files, to install the full version you will need to place the game files from the [following guide](https://github.com/TheAssemblyArmada/Vanilla-Conquer/wiki/Installing-VanillaRA) into `ports/vanillara/data/vanillara`.

You can get the game files from [here](https://github.com/TheAssemblyArmada/Vanilla-Conquer#vanillatd-and-vanillara).

If you want to use the expansions you will need the files from the patch 3.03, [available here](https://www.moddb.com/games/cc-red-alert/downloads/red-alert-303-beta-english-patch).

For multiple cd's and expansions you need the data folder laid out like this:

```
ports/vanillara/data/vanillara
  ├─ REDALERT.MIX             # From CD1 or CD2
  ├─ soviet/                  # From CD1
  │  ├─ MAIN.MIX
  ├─ allied/                  # From CD2
  │  ├─ MAIN.MIX
  ├─ counterstrike/           # From CD3 -- 1st Expansion
  │  ├─ MAIN.MIX
  ├─ aftermath/               # From CD4 -- 2nd Expansion
  │  ├─ MAIN.MIX
  ├─ EXPAND.MIX               # From Patch 3.03
  ├─ EXPAND2.MIX
  ├─ HIRES1.MIX
  ├─ LORES1.MIX
```

## Building

    git clone https://github.com/TheAssemblyArmada/Vanilla-Conquer.git

    git apply DATA_PATHS.diff

    mkdir build

    cd build

    cmake .. -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug

    make -j4

    strip vanilla*

You will then have `vanillara` & `vanillatd`

# TODO:

- [x] Get game to work.
- [x] Get expansions to work.
- [x] Figure out controls - Thanks Snoopy! :)
- [x] Test it on AmberELEC
- [x] Test it on ArkOS

# Thanks

A special thanks to the excellent folks on the [AmberELEC discord](https://discord.com/invite/R9Er7hkRMe), especially [Snoopy](https://github.com/Roughtrade) and [Cebion](https://github.com/Cebion) for all the testing.
